---
title: 'Breakpoints vs. the Width of the Viewport'
summary: 'How to avoid infinite loops between breakpoints.'
---
This site's banner becomes smaller on screen sizes of 767px or less. The font becomes smaller, the border radius becomes smaller, and the padding is cut in half. The last difference, padding, is animated so that when you move from "desktop" to "mobile" the size of the banner doesn't snap from one to the other, but changes slowly in 200 milliseconds.

```css
/* transition code */
-webkit-transition: padding 0.2s ease-in;
-moz-transition:    padding 0.2s ease-in;
-ms-transition:     padding 0.2s ease-in;
-o-transition:      padding 0.2s ease-in;
transition:         padding 0.2s ease-in;
```

I think I added this for myself really. When I was writing the [LESS][less] for the site and changing the viewport size to work on the different breakpoints, it seemed like a nice touch.

At some point I came across a strange bug. It was when I was dealing with a page that was just short enough that it didn't have a vertical scrollbar on mobile, but it did on desktop because the banner is taller. If I moved the viewport to be exactly 767px wide the animation would trigger, but then immediately reverse and move back, creating an infinite loop of animating the padding between 30px and 60px.

This happened in Chrome, but not in Firefox. Chrome does not count the width of the scrollbar with the width of the viewport while Firefox does. While some believe Chrome's implementation is better ([e.g.][eg]), in this case Firefox's implementation is actually better because it doesn't allow for the infinite loop scenario, and [technically Firefox is correct][firefox_right].

My solution was to force scrollbars even when they aren't needed.

```css
/* solution */
html {
  overflow-y: scroll;
}
```

[less]: http://lesscss.org/
[eg]: http://iamkeir.com/post/26647025450/firefox-media-query-breakpoints-wtf
[firefox_right]: http://www.w3.org/TR/css3-mediaqueries/#width
