---
title: Font Stacks, Per Character Fallbacks
summary: Font icons unwrapped.
---
A font stack is a comma separated list of fonts in CSS, arranged from *font chosen by the designer* to similar fonts in case the first one one isn't available, and finally a general font just so you don't end up with Comic Sans. There are several ways that the first font might not be available. If you're using a webfont it might just fail to load. If you're using one of the old school Web safe fonts it might not be on the system. Turns out though those are not the only scenarios.

I always just assumed that the way font stacks worked was that the browser used the first font available on the system it was running on. This is the behavior that is mostly observed, but I suspect that's because the character range seen on a QWERTY keyboard is widely available in all fonts that one has in their stacks. Arial has a $ and Helvetica Neue has a $ for instance, and if Arial isn't available you're definitely not going to see it.

What I didn't realize is that *per character* the browser will fallback. Does Arial have a $? No? Use Helvetica Neue's $. [MDN confirms this][mdn].

This is really useful. If you put a font first that has a limited character set, say an icon font, you can mix that limited character set with a more general fallback.

```css
/* CSS */
.page-search .search-query
{
    background: #fafafa;
    font-family: "FontAwesome", "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}
```

```html
<!-- HTML -->
<input placeholder="&amp;#xf002; Search" type="text" name="q" class="search-query span12">
```

Font Awesome, like many icon fonts, uses the Private Use Area of Unicode, so for &amp;#xf002; it has a glyph, but then when we get to "Search" it doesn't have those, so for all the remaining characters it uses Helvetica Neue. I use this technique and specific code for the search field in my nav.

I don't remember where I first learned this. I was listening to a podcast. I'll link to it as soon as I figure out which one and which episode it was.

I'm sure there are downsides&mdash;something with screen readers probably&mdash;that I haven't learned about, but it is definitely something worth exploring, and for this site where I don't care if something breaks, I'm comfortable enough to use it sparingly. It's worth noting also that this doesn't work in older versions of IE, but I've tested it in IE10 and it works fine.

[mdn]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/CSS/font-family
