---
title: 'New Design with Bourbon Neat'
summary: 'A new site design using Sass, Bourbon, Neat, and Bitters.'
---
I spent this past weekend redesigning this site. It looks very much the same, but the code is mostly different. I'm now using [Sass][sass] instead of [LESS][less], and I'm using a mixin library called [Bourbon][bourbon] from [Thoughtbot][thoughtbot]. I'm also using their grid, called [Neat][neat], and a yet to be released project called [Bitters][bitters]. I'm going to walk through each of these changes one by one and write about them briefly.

I was really hesitant to switch from LESS to Sass. I had tried Sass before and it's great and clearly has some advantages over Less, but those advantages are disappearing with every pull request it seems, and using Sass would mean that my static site generator now depends (at least for me) on both Node.js **and** Ruby. What changed my mind was listening to [this episode of the Changelog][podcast], and Googling Bourbon Neat.

So what is Bourbon and what is Neat? Well first of all Bourbon is a Sass mixin library from the people at Thoughtbot. It's like [Compass][compass] in that it lets you forget about vendor prefixes. It only [supports][support] the most modern browsers though. No IE 8, which is fine by me. The really cool thing about it though is that it's written completely in Sass. For me this means that while my project depends on Sass, it won't be tied to an implementation. I could use Ruby for compiling it or _potentially_ the newer, faster [C implementation][faster].

Neat is a semantic grid framework for use with Bourbon and Sass. The thing that really attracted me to it is that it's semantic. What that really means is that it's written entirely in mixins, and doesn't dictate any classes that you need in your markup. It gives you mixins to create the layout that you need. In theory you could create an entirely unsemantic layout. For me using Neat meant that I could get rid of a couple divs and a handful of classes. I had to keep one div though that serves no other purpose than having a class name, but that class name is something *slightly* more semantic now.

```scss
/* New Layout */

body {
    @include outer-container;
    @include pad(1em);
}

@include media($small-view) {

    [role="banner"], [role="navigation"], [role="main"], [role="contentinfo"] {

        @include span-columns(6);
        @include omega();
    }
}

.central {
    @include row(block, RTL);

    [role="navigation"] {
        margin-top: .5em;

        @include media($large-view) {
            @include span-columns(4);
            margin-top: .5em;
        }

        input {
            width: 100%;
        }
    }

    [role="main"] {

        @include media($large-view) {
            @include span-columns(8);
            @include omega();

            > * {
                margin-left: $base-border-radius/2;
                margin-right: $base-border-radius/2;
            }
        }
    }
}

[role="contentinfo"] {
    margin-top: 1em;

    @include media($large-view) {
        > * {
            margin-left: $base-border-radius;
            margin-right: $base-border-radius;
        }
    }
}
```

Bitters is also something by Thoughtbot. Rather than being a library of mixins it is meant as a starting point for a Bourbon Neat project. It is meant to be edited. It's hard to say exactly what it will be once it's released. It could change I suppose. It's certainly not another Bootstrap, but it was a great starting point, and saved me the pain of having to write a bunch of default typography styles, breakpoints, and many other things.

All together I'd have to say I am loving Bourbon and its friends. My mostly the same old design with mostly new code is more semantic. More importantly it's also leaner. My CSS is one third the size that it was before. It is important to note that I wasn't using all of Bootstrap either. I excluded everything I didn't need without modifying core files. If I had been using the full version the difference would have been even greater!

Having said all that my design is mostly the same and that's because I'm still using some elements from Bootstrap. There were two things from Bootstrap that if I had abandoned them their absence would have drastically altered my design. Wells and buttons. I didn't want a drastic change visually. I took those two elements and moved them into mixins.

So I encourage everyone to give Bourbon and Neat a try. Seriously it is the way writing CSS should be. My next step is to write a [sassc][sexy] filter for Assetic so that I won't even depend on Ruby, and every time I compile my site it will be faster. Since I ultimately want to open-source my static site generator that is pretty important.


[sass]: http://sass-lang.com/
[less]: http://lesscss.org/
[bourbon]: http://bourbon.io/
[thoughtbot]: http://www.thoughtbot.com/
[neat]: http://neat.bourbon.io/
[bitters]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/bitters
[podcast]: http://5by5.tv/changelog/93
[compass]: http://compass-style.org/
[support]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/bourbon/wiki/Browser-Support
[sexy]: https://github.com/hcatlin/sassc
[faster]: https://github.com/hcatlin/libsass
