---
title: It's Live
summary: Wright is now on Github
---
I open-sourced the static generator I use for this site yesterday and put it up on Github. You can find it [here][here].

It took me a long seven months. There were a couple things that contributed to the delay. First of all, I knew git a little bit but wanted to learn more. Second, I felt like I had to establish multiple repositories. One for the static site generator, one for just the PHP that would be a Composer package, and one just for my version of the code with my articles and design.

In the end both these things should __not__ have held me back. I skipped much of the learning that I felt I needed and just started using [Tower][tower]. Tower makes lots of things easier and actually helps you learn the command-line, which you will still probably need. I do.

As for the multiple repos I decided to forget about making the PHP code a Composer package. I'm not really sure if any of it should be—at least not without tests—and that can certainly wait. And my personal articles and design are just a branch that I keep locally on my machine. I still back up everything the way I did before with Dropbox.

This has been a fantastic experience and I feel great now that it's out there. I can at least reference it in my portfolio of work now. And I hope to use and improve the code myself for years and years to come.

It actually took me one failed attempt earlier in the week to make this happen. When I first put it up there were hundreds of cache and vendor files. After using it for a week, I ultimately just deleted it and started over. I felt having a clean start was important. So I learned my lesson about making sure a _.gitignore_ file is in place before adding all my project's files to a git repo.

[here]: https://github.com/erickmerchant/wright
[tower]: http://www.git-tower.com/
