---
title: "All the Things with Gulp"
summary: gulp is awesome. I write about some unconventional things I did with it.
---
[This](http://gulpjs.com/) is gulp. It's a node thing where you write tasks. If you run `$ gulp` it will run the 'default' task that you have defined. Or you can specify the tasks to run like `$ gulp sass js`. There are a lot of gulp plugins you can use for things like compiling sass, combining and minifying js, and many other things. I now use gulp to compile this entire site. That is I use it to not only compile sass, combine and minify js, but I also have it take markdown files, match them up to templates, and generate html. Then I have a watch task, a common thing in gulp, that watches the filesystem and reruns the right tasks when things change. And then there is a server where I can browse my site before committing it to github. No need for Apache or Nginx. To make a new post I run `$ gulp make --in content/drafts/ --title "The Name of My Post"` and then to move that to the folder where it will be published I do `$ gulp move --file content/drafts/the-name-of-my-post.md --to content/posts/ --date`. I've put the whole thing [here](https://github.com/erickmerchant/erickmerchant.com-source). Ideally everything in the lib and the useful innovative tasks should be npm packages, but I need to figure out how I'll do that and what to name everything. The lib folder will be a package. I'm not sure about the tasks. I'll write more about the details of the gulp file and the other things I wrote in updates to this post.
