---
title: 2014, So Far
summary: The first two months of 2014.
---
I haven't written anything in a long time. To break this dry spell I've decided to write a summary of 2014 with a bit of looking ahead. So far 2014 has been a year of learning new things, improving my website in very significant though unseen ways, and pushing ahead to version 1.0.0 of Wright.

I've started playing around with [gulp]. I never used grunt so I can't really speak to the differences between it and gulp. One thing is certain though. Where as I never started using grunt even though it seemed very useful, I was using gulp within 12 hours of seeing a snippet of it. It also got me writing [Node] for the first time. Tools that get people writing code are good.

I've also started using [Laravel] at work. Though I'm just in the very early stages of learning it, it's exciting to use a framework for the first time at work. I used FuelPHP before, but it was just for fun.

I've moved registration and DNS for my domain to a service separate from my webhost. Something I've wanted to do for years. [DNSimple] is really easy to use and has great prices. At the same time my website is now on [GitHub Pages][github_pages]. So far I have no complaints. It's fast, free, I deploy with pushes rather than dragging files, and Gzip is always on. The only thing, not really a complaint, is that css and js files are not set to use far future expires headers so cache-busting is useless. I see lots of 304 headers though and the response time is under 300ms usually so I'm happy.

Wright is very close to a 1.0.0 release. A short list of what needs to happen is the following.

- Plugin tags in data. So that you can have things like gists, thumbnails, and things like that.
- 301 redirects. settings/sitemap.yml will handle this. This will be slightly different now that I'm on GitHub Pages
- Disqus comments
- A make command `./wright make "A New Post" --related="tags/examples"`
- A move command `./wright move drafts/new-post articles`
- A delete command. `./wright delete articles/old-post`

Several of these items have changed now that I'm on GitHub. I don't want to limit Wright to my use case, but it certainly changes the code that I will write that will be Wright as it is out of the box.

[gulp]: http://gulpjs.com
[Node]: http://nodejs.org/
[Laravel]: http://laravel.com/
[DNSimple]: http://dnsimple.com
[github_pages]: http://pages.github.com/
