---
title: "The Annual Now For Something Completely Different"
summary: Confessing that I need to write more prose and less code.
---
I have a problem. I seem to change the code that I'm using to make this site about every year and then I write about it. I firmly believe that writing code for the hell of it can be fun—it is fun to me at least—but surely my own website's code doesn't need to be reinvented at this pace. But then I'm always trying to learn the best ways to do things, and optimizing the hell out of this site is sort of game to me, so maybe rewriting the codebase isn't so bad. Writing about it can be though. It's stifled me from writing other articles. Instead of writing about something cool I did at work or such, I've spent my time writing about my latest blogging engine, or not writing at all because I'm too busy writing a blogging engine. I'm reminded of a tweet I saw.

> Programmers: Don't write a blogging platform, write a damn post.
> [@lizthedeveloper](https://twitter.com/lizthedeveloper/status/342499515108061184)

Having said that though... I rewrote everything again. This time I'm really happy with the result. It literally does everything I want it to do. And I'm promising myself going forward to just write articles, and not a codebase to publish the articles.

I really didn't want to rewrite everything. I had a pretty elaborate project on GitHub called Wright that I had put a lot of time into. In the process I learned all about dependency injection, wrote a DI container, and learned about testing, and a lot about Composer. But the problem with Wright is that it didn't do everything that I needed it to. In fact I didn't want to make it do those things either. Mostly it didn't do anything with assets and it didn't watch the filesystem for changes and rebuild when they happened. I didn't want to put those features in because I was using gulp, and gulp is amazing. Well after two failed attempts and one successful, my first three times writing anything in Node I managed to fit every feature I was using in Wright into a few tasks in gulp. It's definitely strange to be running commands like `gulp watch serve` and `gulp make --title "All the Things with Gulp" --in content/drafts/`, but the result works so well I'm sticking with it. If people want a static site generator written in PHP they can use Sculpin which honestly looks really cool.

In my [next post](/posts/all-the-things-with-gulp/) I will write all about the monstrous gulp file that I wrote.
